Title: Teen Girls Confront an Epidemic of Deepfake Nudes in Schools
Link: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/08/technology/deepfake-ai-nudes-westfield-high-school.html
Citation:
> [!note] Citation
> ## Singer 2024
> Singer, Natasha. “Teen Girls Confront an Epidemic of Deepfake Nudes in Schools.” _The New York Times_, April 8, 2024, sec. Technology. [https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/08/technology/deepfake-ai-nudes-westfield-high-school.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/08/technology/deepfake-ai-nudes-westfield-high-school.html).

# Summary
Using artificial intelligence, middle and high school students have fabricated explicit images of female classmates and shared the doctored pictures.

In October, **some 10th-grade girls at Westfield High School — including Ms. Mani’s 14-year-old daughter, Francesca — alerted administrators that boys in their class had used artificial intelligence software to fabricate sexually explicit images of them and were circulating the faked pictures**. Five months later, the Manis and other families say, the district has done little to publicly address the doctored images or update school policies to hinder exploitative A.I. use.

Boys in several states have used widely available “nudification” apps to pervert real, identifiable photos of their clothed female classmates, shown attending events like school proms, into graphic, convincing-looking images of the girls with exposed A.I.-generated breasts and genitalia. In some cases, boys shared the faked images in the school lunchroom, on the school bus or through group chats on platforms like Snapchat and Instagram, according to school and police reports.

Such digitally altered images — known as “deepfakes” or “deepnudes” — can have devastating consequences. **Child sexual exploitation experts say the use of nonconsensual, A.I.-generated images to harass, humiliate and bully young women can harm their mental health, reputations and physical safety as well as pose risks to their college and career prospects**. Last month, the Federal Bureau of Investigation [warned that it is illegal](https://www.ic3.gov/Media/Y2024/PSA240329) to distribute computer-generated child sexual abuse material, including realistic-looking A.I.-generated images of identifiable minors engaging in sexually explicit conduct.

At Issaquah High School near Seattle last fall, a police detective investigating complaints from parents about explicit A.I.-generated images of their 14- and 15-year-old daughters asked an assistant principal why the school had not reported the incident to the police, according to a report from the Issaquah Police Department. The school official then asked “what was she supposed to report,” the police document said, prompting the detective to inform her that schools are required by law to report sexual abuse, including possible child sexual abuse material. The school subsequently reported the incident to Child Protective Services, the police report said. (The New York Times obtained the police report through a public-records request.)

At Beverly Vista Middle School in Beverly Hills, Calif., administrators contacted the police in February after learning that five boys had created and shared A.I.-generated explicit images of female classmates. Two weeks later, the school board approved the expulsion of five students, according to [district documents](https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/SB_Meetings/ViewMeeting.aspx?S=36030529&MID=28852&Tab=Agenda&enIID=bGDV0Hm5naFh2EVCPG7slshIw%3D%3D). (The district said California’s education code prohibited it from confirming whether the expelled students were the students who had manufactured the images.)

# Debate block
Because of generative AI, there is a rise of deepfake nudes in schools, generating child sexual abuse material, used to harass female students. At Westfield High School in New Jersey, 10th grade girls found out that boys were distributing fake explicit photos of them. At Issaquah High School in Seattle, 14- and 15-year-old students complained about explicit A.I. generated deepfakes of them. At Beverly Vista Middle School in California, 5 boys were expelled from the school shortly after the school noticed that explicit deepfakes were being circulated among the community. 